Add documentation on storage partitioning and partitioned cookies (#6968)
GoogleChrome/developer.chrome.com: site/en/docs/extensions/mv3/storage-and-cookies/index.md

---
layout: "layouts/doc-post.njk"
title: "Storage and Cookies"
seoTitle: "Chrome Extensions storage and cookies"
date: 2023-08-01
description: Overview of how web storage APIs and cookies work in extensions
---

Extensions can store cookies and access web storage APIs similar to a normal website. However, in
some cases these behave differently in extensions.

This article does not cover extension specific APIs. For more on these, see
[chrome.storage][chrome-storage-api].

## Storage {: #storage }

### Persistence {: #storage-persistence }

> Extension storage is always persistent. For example, when a user uses the "Clear Browsing Data"

Author: I'd like to check this with Devlin. The code seems to make it very clear this is the case ([source](https://source.chromium.org/chromium/chromium/src/+/main:chrome/browser/extensions/extension_special_storage_policy.cc;l=123;drc=4ddfd6785f21a7bce85e7adccbfc6edcb7e73ef1)) but https://bugs.chromium.org/p/chromium/issues/detail?id=1209236 makes it sound like it isn't. So I don't want to make any guarantees and then realise I missed something.

Author: On a second reading of the code, I think memory pressure evictions can occur for extensions without the unlimitedStorage permission.

Reviewer: Should you also mention how web storage works with content scripts?

Author: I've added some information which hopefully helps here. This is the same for popups and the side panel, but content scripts access storage from the website's origin, so it doesn't really make sense in the same context.

feature, this does not affect extensions. This includes any data stored using web storage APIs (such
as Local Storage and IndexedDB). Additionally, extensions are not subject to storage eviction under
heavy memory pressure.

By default, extensions are subject to the normal quota restrictions on storage, which can be checked
using the `navigator.storage.estimate()` method. However, they can request the `unlimitedStorage`
permission which affects both extension and web storage APIs.

> ### Access in service workers {: #storage-in-service-workers }

Reviewer 2: Don't extensions behave in this case exactly like web pages?  Do we need to say much in this case? The offscreen workaround feels a bit misplaced here as the intention of the article is to explain how storage works.

Reviewer 2: I still think it'd be better to move this content to the migration guide and link from here instead.

Some web storage APIs like IndexedDB are accessible in service workers. However, Local Storage and
Session Storage are not.

Instead, use an [offscreen document][offscreen]. For example, you could use the following to migrate
data when updating from Manifest V2 to Manifest V3:

1. In the extension service worker check `chrome.storage` for your data.
1. If your data isn't found, [create][create-offscreen] an offscreen document and call
[`sendMessage()`][send-message] to start a conversion routine. Read the data from the web storage
APIs and use message passing to return it to the service worker.
1. In the service worker, write the data to a new location.

### Partitioning {: #storage-partitioning }

To prevent certain types of cross-site tracking, [storage partitioning][storage-partitioning]

> creates a seperate storage area in certain third-party contexts. In practice, this means that

Reviewer 3: I'd lean on the description in the Privacy Sandbox page. This is a change to how the partitioning key is defined, so it's not separate storage in certain third-party contexts - but a double-keyed structure that results in separate storage for any context.

if site A embeds an iframe containing site B, site B will not be able to access the same storage
it would usually have when navigated to directly.

To mitigate the impact of this in extensions, two key exemptions apply:

- If a page with the chrome-extension:// scheme is embedded in any site, storage partitioning will
not apply, and the extension will have access to its normal storage partition.
- If a page with the chrome-extension:// scheme includes an iframe, and the extension has
[host permissions][declare-permissions] for the site it is embedding, that site will also have

> access to its normal storage partition.

Reviewer 3: top-level versus normal.

Combined, these mean that storage partitioning is not usually something which extension developers
should need to consider.

## Cookies {: #cookies }

### Secure cookies {: #secure-cookies }

> The [`Secure`][cookies-restrict-access] cookie attribute is only supported for the https:// scheme.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The [`Secure`][cookies-restrict-access] cookie attribute is only supported for the `https://` scheme.
```

> Consequently, chrome-extension:// pages are not able to set cookies with this attribute. This also

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Consequently, `chrome-extension://` pages are not able to set cookies with this attribute. This also
```

means that extensions cannot use the [`Partitioned`][chips] attribute, which requires that the

> `Secure` attribute is also set.

Reviewer 2: Are there any implications of this for extensions?

Author: I don't think so. It means they can't create partitioned cookies, but that's a new feature, so it's not something extension developers are used to having. And I would argue cookies aren't really a good storage mechanism to use in extensions.

permissions embeds a third-party site: [https://crbug.com/1463991](https://crbug.com/1463991)
{% endAside %}

As mentioned [above](#secure-cookies), extensions cannot create partitioned cookies, and cookies
are not currently partitioned by default (see the Privacy Sandbox
[timeline][privacy-sandbox-timeline] for related work). Consequently, chrome-extension:// pages
embedded in other websites can access cookies associated with the extension origin as normal.

If a chrome-extension:// page contains an iframe, any sites it embeds will use the extension
origin as the partitioning key. This means that they will **not** be able to access partitioned
cookies associated with other partitions.

Partitioning also has implications for the [chrome.cookies][chrome-cookies] API. For more
information, see the [API reference][chrome-cookies-partitioning].

[chrome-storage-api]: /extensions/reference/storage
[offscreen]: /extensions/reference/offscreen
[on-message]: /docs/extensions/reference/runtime/#event-onMessage
[create-offscreen]: /docs/extensions/reference/offscreen/#method-createDocument
[send-message]: /docs/extensions/reference/runtime/#method-sendMessage

> [storage-partitioning]: /docs/privacy-sandbox/storage-partitioning

Reviewer 3: This page includes a section on Extensions. I would ensure you also update that location to ensure the messaging is the same. I'd suggest that the entry under the Privacy Sandbox docs should be a more concise summary and links through to this page as the canonical source.

---
layout: "layouts/doc-post.njk"
title: "Storage and Cookies"
seoTitle: "Chrome Extensions storage and cookies"
date: 2023-08-01
description: Overview of how web storage APIs and cookies work in extensions
---

Extensions can store cookies and access web storage APIs similar to a normal website. However, in
some cases these behave differently in extensions.

This article does not cover extension specific APIs. For more on these, see
[chrome.storage][chrome-storage-api].

> ## Storage {: #storage }

Reviewer 2: I'd be great if you could have a short intro here.

### Persistence {: #storage-persistence }

> Extension storage is not cleared when a user uses the "Clear Browsing Data" feature. This includes

Reviewer 2: Is there a place you could link to?

Author: Added a link to the support docs :)

any data stored using web storage APIs (such as Local Storage and IndexedDB).

By default, extensions are subject to the normal quota restrictions on storage, which can be checked
using the `navigator.storage.estimate()` method. Storage can also be evicted under heavy memory
pressure, although this is rare. To avoid this:

- Request the `unlimitedStorage` permission, which affects both extension and web storage APIs and
exempts extensions from both quota restrictions and eviction.
- Use [`navigator.storage.persist()`][storage-persist] for protection against eviction.

Extension storage is shared across the extension's origin, such as the associated service worker,
any extension pages including popups and the side panel, and offscreen documents. In content
scripts, calling web storage APIs accesses data from the origin the content script is injected on
and not the extension.

### Access in service workers {: #storage-in-service-workers }

> Some web storage APIs like IndexedDB are accessible in service workers. However, Local Storage and

Reviewer 2: Would be good to add links for indexeddb, local storage and session stoarge.

Session Storage are not.

> 

Reviewer 2: remove empty line here

Instead, use an [offscreen document][offscreen]. For example, you could use the following to migrate
data when updating from Manifest V2 to Manifest V3:

> 1. In the extension service worker check `chrome.storage` for your data.

Reviewer 2: add link for chrome.storage

1. If your data isn't found, [create][create-offscreen] an offscreen document and call
[`sendMessage()`][send-message] to start a conversion routine. Read the data from the web storage
APIs and use message passing to return it to the service worker.
1. In the service worker, write the data to a new location.

> ### Partitioning {: #storage-partitioning }

Reviewer 2: Would be good to start with a sentence summarising what partitioning is.

To prevent certain types of cross-site tracking, [storage partitioning][storage-partitioning]
introduces changes to how partitioning keys are defined. In practice, this means that if site A
embeds an iframe containing site B, site B will not be able to access the same storage it would
usually have when navigated to directly.

To mitigate the impact of this in extensions, two key exemptions apply:

- If a page with the `chrome-extension://` scheme is embedded in any site, storage partitioning will
not apply, and the extension will have access to its top-level partition.
- If a page with the `chrome-extension://` scheme includes an iframe, and the extension has
[host permissions][declare-permissions] for the site it is embedding, that site will also have
access to its top-level partition.

> Combined, these mean that storage partitioning is not usually something which extension developers

Reviewer 2: "Not usually" makes me weary as I'm instantly wondering which cases are not usual...

Author: I ended up removing this line. Given this isn't a migration guide, "test your extension with these changes" didn't make sense, and I don't think there is much else to say.

should need to consider.

> ## Cookies {: #cookies }

Reviewer 2: Same as above, would be good to have a quick intro/summary here.

web.

### Persistence {: #storage-persistence }

Extension storage is not cleared when a user ["clears browsing data"][clear-browsing-data].
This applies to any data stored using web storage APIs (such as
[Local Storage][local-storage] and [IndexedDB][indexeddb]).

By default, extensions are subject to the normal quota restrictions on storage, which can be checked
by calling `navigator.storage.estimate()`. Storage can also be evicted under heavy memory
pressure, although this is rare. To avoid this:

- Request the `"unlimitedStorage"` permission, which affects both extension and web storage APIs and
exempts extensions from both quota restrictions and eviction.
- Call [`navigator.storage.persist()`][storage-persist] for protection against eviction.

Extension storage is shared across the extension's origin including the extension service worker,
any extension pages (including popups and the side panel), and offscreen documents. In content
scripts, calling web storage APIs accesses data from the host page the content script is injected on
and not the extension.

### Access in service workers {: #storage-in-service-workers }

> Some web storage APIs like [IndexedDB][indexeddb] are accessible in service workers. However,

Reviewer 4: >Some web storage APIs

Please list them all specifically.

[Local Storage][local-storage] and [Session Storage][session-storage] are not.

> If you have a specific use case, use an [offscreen document][offscreen] to access these.

Reviewer 4: >If you have a specific use case

This seems superfluous. What are you trying to convey other than use offscreen for local and session storage?

Author: I wanted a very brief note because I can imagine there are use cases I'm not aware of. At the very least there is the MV2 migration example that we don't want to mention here.

Reviewer 4: I don't follow how this text address that concern.

Author: Is this better? Feel free to accept the suggestion if so :)

```suggestion
If you need to access Local Storage or Session Storage from the service worker, use an [offscreen document][offscreen].
```

### Partitioning {: #storage-partitioning }

Partitioning is where keys are introduced for stored data to limit where it can be accessed.

> When enabled, [storage partitioning][storage-partitioning] introduces changes to how partitioning

Reviewer 4: This is another example, of why I made a proposal for how to deal with items behind a flag. We shouldn't be talking about this in primary documentation yet.

keys are defined to prevent certain types of cross-site tracking. In practice, this means that if
site A embeds an iframe containing site B, site B will not be able to access the same storage it
would usually have when navigated to directly.

> To mitigate the impact of this in extensions, two key exemptions apply:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
To mitigate the impact of this in extensions, two exemptions apply:
```

Reviewer 4: Qualifying 'exemptions' makes it sound like there might be others that you didn't discuss.

Author: Good call out, thanks.

- If a page with the `chrome-extension://` scheme is embedded in any site, storage partitioning will
not apply, and the extension will have access to its top-level partition.
- If a page with the `chrome-extension://` scheme includes an iframe, and the extension has
[host permissions][declare-permissions] for the site it is embedding, that site will also have
access to its top-level partition.

## Cookies {: #cookies }

Cookies provide a way to store key/value pairs associated with a specific domain and path. They have
limited value in extensions but understanding their behavior can be useful if you have a specific
use case or have bundled a third-party script which uses them in its implementation.

### Secure cookies {: #secure-cookies }

The [`Secure`][cookies-restrict-access] cookie attribute is only supported for the `https://`
scheme. Consequently, `chrome-extension://` pages are not able to set cookies with this attribute.

This also means that extension pages cannot use other cookie attributes where the `Secure` attribute is
required:

- [`SameSite=None`][same-site]

> - [`Partitioned`][chips]

Reviewer 4: What is this?

Author: An example of a cookie attribute that cannot be used in an extension. I linked to MDN here for anyone who wants to read more, without trying to document it a second time.

Reviewer 4: Please add introductory text to explain that. The links should be in the introductory text.

Author: I'm not sure I understand. Isn't that covered by "extension pages cannot use other cookie attributes where the `Secure` attribute is required:"?

Reviewer 4: I interpreted the word 'example' incorrectly. It looks fine.

### Partitioning {: #cookies-partitioning }

{% Aside %}
See [https://crbug.com/1463991](https://crbug.com/1463991) which tracks possible changes to the
behaviour when an extension with host permissions embeds a third-party site.

> {% endAside %}

Reviewer 4: I've cc'd myself on the ticket so that we remember to update this when it's finished. Please remove this note.

Author: This is a bug. I was ok removing the note about the API proposal since that's future work, but I'd really like to keep this. If we make it more clear it's a bug, does that help? As some more context, as well as being long-lived documentation I expect much of the initial traffic here to be developers looking to make sure they accommodate these changes. I think it's important they know if something is not working so they can plan accordingly.

Author: Feel free to accept this if it looks good:

```suggestion
{% Aside %}
When an extension embeds a third-party site, that site will use the extension origin as the partition key. This means the site will not be able access the same cookies as if it was navigated to directly. See [https://crbug.com/1463991](https://crbug.com/1463991).
{% endAside %}
```

As mentioned [above](#secure-cookies), extensions cannot create partitioned cookies, and cookies
are not currently partitioned by default (see the Privacy Sandbox
[timeline][privacy-sandbox-timeline] for related work). Consequently, `chrome-extension://` pages

> embedded in other websites can access cookies associated with the extension origin as normal.

Reviewer 4: So, is this expected to change in the future?

Author: I hope it will remain the case, but there is extra work that is not yet agreed and would need to happen to guarantee that.

Author: I've made significant changes to this section to hopefully clarify the behavior and remove the vague promises for changes in the future.

If a `chrome-extension://` page contains an iframe, any sites it embeds will use the extension
origin as the partitioning key. This means that they will **not** be able to access partitioned
cookies associated with other partitions.

The [`chrome.cookies`][chrome-cookies] API currently operates on cookies from all partitions. For

> more information, see the [API reference][chrome-cookies-partitioning].

Reviewer 4: This is fine. A simpler way to do this is to use only the first sentence and put the partitioning link on 'cookies from all partitions'.

---
layout: "layouts/doc-post.njk"
title: "Storage and cookies"
seoTitle: "Chrome extensions storage and cookies"
date: 2023-08-01
description: Overview of how web storage APIs and cookies work in extensions.
---

Extensions can store cookies and access web storage APIs similarly to a normal website. However, in
some cases these behave differently in extensions.

See [`chrome.storage`][chrome-storage-api] for information on the extension API.

## Storage {: #storage }

It is often desirable to use web platform storage APIs in extensions. This section explores the
behavior of these APIs in an extension context, which can sometimes differ with how they behave on the
web.

### Persistence {: #storage-persistence }

> Extension storage is not cleared when a user ["clears browsing data"][clear-browsing-data].

Reviewer 4: This shouldn't be in quotes. The button is called 'clear', not 'clears'.

To prevent certain types of cross-site tracking, [storage partitioning][storage-partitioning]
introduces changes to how partitioning keys are defined. In practice, this means that if site A
embeds an iframe containing site B, site B will not be able to access the same storage it would
usually have when navigated to directly.

To mitigate the impact of this in extensions, two key exemptions apply:

- If a page with the `chrome-extension://` scheme is embedded in any site, storage partitioning will
not apply, and the extension will have access to its top-level partition.
- If a page with the `chrome-extension://` scheme includes an iframe, and the extension has
[host permissions][declare-permissions] for the site it is embedding, that site will also have
access to its top-level partition.

## Cookies {: #cookies }

Cookies provide a way to store key/value pairs associated with a specific domain and path. They have
limited value in extensions but understanding their behavior can be useful if you have a specific
use case or have bundled a third-party script which uses them in its implementation.

### Secure cookies {: #secure-cookies }

> The [`Secure`][cookies-restrict-access] cookie attribute is only supported for the `https://`

Reviewer 3: I didn't realise this. It raises an interesting additional point, presumably that means `chrome-extension://` URLs also cannot set a `SameSite=None`, i.e. a third-party cookie, as this also requires the `Secure` attribute. If that's the case, `Partitioned` would simply be a continuation of this - you can't have the entire super-set of cross-site cookie options, `Partitioned` is a specific option within that.

Author: Good call! I added a note 😃

### Partitioning {: #cookies-partitioning }

{% Aside %}
See [https://crbug.com/1463991](https://crbug.com/1463991) which tracks possible changes to the
behaviour when an extension with host permissions embeds a third-party site.
{% endAside %}

As mentioned [above](#secure-cookies), extensions cannot create partitioned cookies, and cookies

> are not currently partitioned by default (see the Privacy Sandbox

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
are not partitioned by default (see the Privacy Sandbox
```

Author: Made significant changes to this section.

---
layout: "layouts/doc-post.njk"
title: "Storage and Cookies"
seoTitle: "Chrome Extensions storage and cookies"
date: 2023-08-01
description: Overview of how web storage APIs and cookies work in extensions
---

Extensions can store cookies and access web storage APIs similar to a normal website. However, in
some cases these behave differently in extensions.

> This article does not cover extension specific APIs. For more on these, see

Author: Do you mind saying a bit about your thinking here? In this case I mean we don't cover something like chrome.storage so it felt like API made more sense.

> This article does not cover extension specific APIs. For more on these, see

Reviewer 4: A writing best practice is to use concrete and specific language. 'API' is used to describe everything from a single method to a namespace or interface with dozens of members. I was trying to give this statement more specificity.

> This article does not cover extension specific APIs. For more on these, see

Author: Do you mind if we leave this one? I really do mean everything from a namespace to an interface in this case :)

[`chrome.storage`][chrome-storage-api].

## Storage {: #storage }

It is often desirable to use existing web storage APIs in extensions. This section explores the
behavior of these APIs in an extension context, which can sometimes differ to how they behave on the
web.

### Persistence {: #storage-persistence }

Extension storage is not cleared when a user uses the ["Clear Browsing Data"][clear-browsing-data]
feature. This includes any data stored using web storage APIs (such as
[Local Storage][local-storage] and [IndexedDB][indexeddb]).

By default, extensions are subject to the normal quota restrictions on storage, which can be checked
using the `navigator.storage.estimate()` method. Storage can also be evicted under heavy memory
pressure, although this is rare. To avoid this:

- Request the `unlimitedStorage` permission, which affects both extension and web storage APIs and
exempts extensions from both quota restrictions and eviction.
- Use [`navigator.storage.persist()`][storage-persist] for protection against eviction.

Extension storage is shared across the extension's origin, such as the associated service worker,

> any extension pages including popups and the side panel, and offscreen documents. In content

Author: Ah - I like your suggestion :)

> scripts, calling web storage APIs accesses data from the origin the content script is injected on

Author: Nope - I can use that phrasing.
```suggestion
scripts, calling web storage APIs accesses data from the host page the content script is injected on
```

and not the extension.

### Access in service workers {: #storage-in-service-workers }

Some web storage APIs like [IndexedDB][indexeddb] are accessible in service workers. However,
[Local Storage][local-storage] and [Session Storage][session-storage] are not.

Instead, use an [offscreen document][offscreen]. For example, you could use the following to migrate

> data when updating from Manifest V2 to Manifest V3:

Author: Removed this entirely (see the other comment for context). Just added a line saying to use an offscreen document if you really need to.

1. In the extension service worker check [`chrome.storage`][chrome-storage-api] for your data.
1. If your data isn't found, [create][create-offscreen] an offscreen document and call
[`sendMessage()`][send-message] to start a conversion routine. Read the data from the web storage
APIs and use message passing to return it to the service worker.
1. In the service worker, write the data to a new location.

### Partitioning {: #storage-partitioning }

Partitioning is where keys are introduced for stored data to limit where it can be accessed.

To prevent certain types of cross-site tracking, [storage partitioning][storage-partitioning]

> introduces changes to how partitioning keys are defined. In practice, this means that if site A

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
specifies how partitioning keys are defined. In practice, this means that if site A
```

Reviewer 4: This text will be on our site for years to come. The language shouldn't sound forever like the feature is new.

Author: I understand that general philosophy but I think it might make sense here. Storage partitioning is the name given to the work to partition storage. Once that work is fully rolled out, it will just be how the web works.

Author: I've tweaked the wording here to hopefully make it a lot better. Let me know if that sounds good.

embeds an iframe containing site B, site B will not be able to access the same storage it would
usually have when navigated to directly.

To mitigate the impact of this in extensions, two key exemptions apply:

- If a page with the `chrome-extension://` scheme is embedded in any site, storage partitioning will
not apply, and the extension will have access to its top-level partition.
- If a page with the `chrome-extension://` scheme includes an iframe, and the extension has
[host permissions][declare-permissions] for the site it is embedding, that site will also have
access to its top-level partition.

## Cookies {: #cookies }

Cookies provide a way to store key/value pairs associated with a specific domain and path. They have
limited value in extensions but understanding their behavior can be useful if you have a specific
use case or have bundled a third-party script which uses them in its implementation.

### Secure cookies {: #secure-cookies }

The [`Secure`][cookies-restrict-access] cookie attribute is only supported for the `https://`
scheme. Consequently, `chrome-extension://` pages are not able to set cookies with this attribute.

> This also means that extensions cannot use other cookie attributes where the Secure attribute is

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This also means that extension pages cannot use other cookie attributes where the Secure attribute is
```

> This also means that extension pages cannot use other cookie attributes where the Secure attribute is

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This also means that extension pages cannot use other cookie attributes where the `Secure` attribute is
```

### Secure cookies {: #secure-cookies }

The [`Secure`][cookies-restrict-access] cookie attribute is only supported for the `https://`
scheme. Consequently, `chrome-extension://` pages are not able to set cookies with this attribute.

This also means that extension pages cannot use other cookie attributes where the `Secure` attribute is
required:

- [`SameSite=None`][same-site]
- [`Partitioned`][chips]

### Partitioning {: #cookies-partitioning }

{% Aside %}
When an extension embeds a third-party site, that site will use the extension origin as the partition key. This means the site will not be able access the same cookies as if it was navigated to directly. See [https://crbug.com/1463991](https://crbug.com/1463991).
{% endAside %}

Cookies set on chrome-extension:// pages always use [`SameSite=Lax`][same-site]. Consequently, they
can never be accessed in iframes and partitioning is not relevant.

When an extension embeds a third-party website inside of a chrome://extension page, the behavior
depends on the choices on Chrome's Privacy and security settings page:

- If third-party cookies are enabled, the site can access cookies from a partition keyed based on
its origin.

> - If third-party cookies are blocked, Chrome will use the extension origin as the partitioning key

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- If third-party cookies are blocked, Chrome uses the extension origin as the partitioning key
```

for the third-party site's cookies. This means that the site will **not** be able to access

> partitioned cookies associated with other partitions such as the cookies it could access if it was

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
partitioned cookies associated with other partitions such as the cookies it could access if it were
```

Reviewer 4: [subjunctive mood](https://www.scribbr.com/verbs/subjunctive-mood/)
